[mysterious music playing]
[sniffs] Hmm.
- You're not gonna eat that, are you?
- I'm starving.
But not that starving.
[Jaskier] Good,
because that is disgusting.
[Geralt] I'm tracking the monster's scent.
- [Jaskier moans]
- I've only seen an Allamorax in books.
And those shoes
weren't made for climbing rocks.
Wait on shore.
Uh, I need to be amongst the action
to compose a proper ballad.
Besides, I'm more nimble than you'd think.
[Jaskier groans]
[sighs]
- [cracking]
- [Geralt gasps]
- Go!
- I told you. I... [yelps]
[Allamorax roars]
Oh my God. What the fuck is that?
[suspenseful music playing]
- [whimpers]
- [snarls]
[Jaskier gasps]
[Geralt strains]
[straining continues]
[tense music playing]
[strains]
[Allamorax growls]
[Jaskier whimpers]
[Geralt yells]
[strains]
[tense music continues]
[Allamorax growls]
[Geralt grunts]
[tense music continues]
[whimpers]
[Geralt yells]
[groans]
[Allamorax growls]
[Geralt grunting]
[tense music continues]
[yells]
[dramatic music playing]
[Geralt grunts]
- [Allamorax roars]
- [Jaskier gasps]
[dramatic music continues]
[Geralt yells]
[Allamorax groans]
[music fades]
[Geralt grunts]
[dramatic music playing]
[Allamorax roars]
[dramatic music continues]
[yells]
[Geralt gasps]
[dramatic music continues]
[somber music playing]
[breathes heavily]
Nothing personal, big fella.
Show yourself!
[in Merspeak] Have mercy.
That creature means you no harm.
Not say the pearl divers
who hired me to kill it.
This isn't the first attack in the area.
It can barely open its mouth.
[merman] It isn't eating humans.
It's eating oysters
and the divers' precious trinkets inside.
Its only crime is being hungry.
Have mercy.
[Allamorax growls]
But I could use a ride.
[waves splash]
[Jaskier sighs]
[gentle music playing]
[gentle vocalizing]
[gentle music continues]
[music fades]
[merpeople chatter]
[in Merspeak] My children cannot eat
because of those humans!
There are no oysters to be found!
I know you're upset,
but this is not the answer.
[chattering in Merspeak continues]
[merman 1] Silence!
[in English] We've had peace
for too many tides to have it end now.
Let the dark hatreds stay in the past.
This council is doing everything it can
to prevent a war with Bremervoord.
You're not acting because your daughter
is in love with the prince.
The humans know it
and are taking advantage of it.
The humans have moved
beyond pillaging pearls.
They hired a Witcher
to murder the Allamorax.
[merman 2] Witcher?
If one sea creature is in danger,
we all are.
- She's right.
- We have to stop them!
Yes, we must fight!
[merpeople speak over each other]
[merman 3] What kind of king are you?
We shall take
your proposal into consideration.
Mother, you cannot be serious.
Sh'eenaz, you are young and naive.
If a human's mouth opens,
a lie is bound to come forth.
Perhaps it is time
for more drastic measures.
My union with Agloval
could bring peace, not conflict.
I agree with my niece.
Perhaps war is not the answer.
But a wedding--
Be gone from this place, Melusina.
Our daughter could never marry a human.
Not that you could ever understand
the depth
of a mother's love for her child.
Did she just call her barren?
You speak of the past, sister,
but this is about the future
of our people.
Yes, our people.
I am still a member
of this family and the royal court, Dahut.
Your disdain does not negate that fact.
The only reason you're permitted to live
is because I am keenly aware
of that fact, sister.
Leave. Now.
I will go. Willingly.
Do not fret.
But we both know who he loved first.
[scoffs]
[Dahut roars]
[Jaskier] So let me get this straight.
You had the monster right there,
and you just let it go.
[Geralt] The Allamorax didn't kill anyone.
So the humans are lying?
- [Geralt] Could be.
- Are the merpeople the victims?
- [Geralt] Not necessarily.
- Oh.
- So they're hiding something too?
- Maybe.
No, no, no. No maybes. No maybes.
There is good and there is bad.
It's that simple.
Just make up your mind and kill something.
Here's our finest spread.
[meat sizzles]
[Jaskier] Mm.
[chuckles] Mm.
Ah--
[barkeeper] Too bad you can't afford it.
[Jaskier groans]
This is just like
when we were with that horny bugger
back at the edge of the world.
You're a monster hunter,
but only sometimes, apparently.
And with conditions.
[Geralt] A moral code.
We'll get coin another way.
Somewhere other than Bremervoord.
Salve to my heart, if not my stomach.
We only came to this latrine of a town
to avoid running into you-know-who again.
I don't wanna talk about her.
[scoffs] That violet-eyed witch
dictates where we can or can't go
and how foul a mood you're in.
No more Yennefer.
[liquid splashes]
[gentle music playing]
What's the matter. Water not suit?
It's hot, Yennefer, but murky.
[gentle music continues]
Wouldn't be right
to send you out on a night like this.
You cover the booze. I'll cover the bed.
[Geralt] All I said
was Tretogor's black markets
are for idiots
looking to buy miracle cures,
neither of which I thought applied to you.
A fine reminder that you have no idea
what you're talking about
or who you're dealing with.
I was hoping to remedy that tonight.
[Yennefer] Then another thing
you're wrong about.
- Goodnight.
[flames roar]
[gentle music continues]
[murmurs]
[sighs]
[music stops]
[footsteps approach]
[barkeeper] Have at it.
Look, I'm just saying, your moral code
is getting in the way of my eating.
[bread crunches]
This bread is inedible!
Halfsies?
Hand over the coin
you've been earning, then.
[Jaskier] Harsh. Harsh, but fair.
So I will make you a deal.
I'll take the first job that comes my way
if you agree to do the same.
Codes for none.
Coin for all. What do you think?
[barkeeper] Oi.
You the Witcher they talking about?
What let the monster go?
You are mistaken--
- [Geralt] Yes, that's me.
- Son of a bitch.
A Witcher what won't kill monsters?
Whoever heard of such a thing?
Oy! Welcome to me tavern!
But I don't serve ale! [laughs]
[tavern patrons laugh]
- [barkeeper] Get out, you lazy louts!
- [Jaskier groans]
- [barkeeper] Out!
[clears throat] Forgive me,
but are you Jaskier the Bard?
The Song Don of Oxenfurt?
The Crooner of the Continent?
[clears throat] Ooh,
never heard those before, but yes, 'tis I!
[chuckles] Looks like there are green
shoots of culture among the fertilizer.
What would you like?
A signature? A bespoke composition?
A personalized ballad for your lover?
Lovers? Lover's lover?
[man] I'm in charge
of tomorrow's Imbaelk festival.
Getting a fancy bard like yourself
would do wonders.
The king will be there,
so we need to put on a good show.
And I pay well.
[bell tolls]
[mysterious music playing]
Now, can I trust you
to be sensible during my performance?
The last time I left you alone
at a banquet, you ended up with a child.
A Child Surprise, and it's a mistake
I won't soon make again.
Ah.
I'll be a tough act to follow.
Good thing this lot is going first.
[man] Mm-hmm.
[crowd gasping]
[Jaskier] Well, wait. If you like that,
wait till you see my solo
on the psaltery. [chuckles]
[folk music playing]
The psaltery is like a harp,
but it's, like, really small.
It's much more practical if you ask me.
Shut your trap!
I'm trying to watch the show!
Uh, that is no way
to speak to your headliner.
Headliner? [scoffs]
- That's rich.
- Does that mean what I think it means?
Because I'm afraid
I can only accept top billing.
A deal's a deal.
I know what our deal was,
Geralt, but it's not good for my brand.
Come, now. Have a little humility.
[folk music continues]
I practically begged Drouhard
to give you the gig.
Little Eye!
[Little Eye] It's good to see you, Julian.
Julian?
Oh, excuse my slack-jawed companion.
Essi Daven, meet Geralt of Rivia.
[folk music continues]
You two know one another?
We grew up together.
Right here in Bremervoord.
You said you were from Oxenfurt.
[laughs] Don't let
the fancy trousers fool you.
This one's a backwater bumpkin,
just like the rest of us.
So I took some poetic license
with my personal history. Big deal.
Who could blame me?
Growing up in a place like this.
[boy 1] Jump!
- Oy, come on! Jump!
- [boy 2] Come on, hurry up!
Or are you too scared?
Like I said. If you jump,
I'll give you back your toy.
- [boy 2] He's gonna pee himself.
- [boy 1] He's never gonna jump.
- [boy 2] Pankratz!
- [Jaskier whimpers]
Let me go first, Pankratz.
I'll show you how it's done.
- [boy laughs]
- [Jaskier gasps]
- [boy 3 grunts]
[Jaskier yells]
[boy 2] Whoa, did you hear that?
- Ooh!
- [laughter]
- [Jaskier strains]
- [boy 2] He didn't jump. He fell!
Get him, Zelest.
[Essi] Stop! He can't breathe! Let him up!
Come on, Essi. You're his mom now, huh?
- [Jaskier groans]
- [instrument strums]
- Someone should do that to you, Zelest.
- We're just having some fun!
- [Essi] Are you all right?
- [boy 4] It's just a game.
[ominous music playing]
I'd call you a bastard, but everyone here
already knows you're one.
[ominous music continues]
[Essi grunts]
[boys laugh]
- Came out of nowhere. [laughs]
- [girl] She showed him!
- [exhales]
- [boy 1] Did you see that?
[laughter continues]
[Geralt] Huh. What happened
to the little shit?
What, Zelest?
He was the king's bastard kid
and a real prick to boot.
He probably died of syphilis
in a debtor's prison.
Half-blind, crazed, and salivating.
I've not spent
much time thinking about it.
- [fanfare playing]
- Ooh.
King Usveldt. Prince Agloval.
- [man 1] The king!
- [man 2] The king!
Oh, you've got to be kidding me.
[herald] And Commander Zelest.
Always was a real
sucker-upper-kicker-downer, wasn't he?
Prince Agloval appointed him
as military advisor.
[crowd murmurs]
- [man 3] The nerve of the man.
- [man 4] This is bad.
- Risky talk for royal subjects.
- They've had enough.
Five attacks on divers
in the last few months,
and no one's held to account.
Except the Allamorax.
Most folks know
that poor creature was just a scapegoat.
The merpeople are notoriously territorial,
and our royals won't retaliate
because Prince Agloval's in love
with a mermaid.
[Jaskier] Wow. That is messy.
[Geralt] This is the same
as every feud since the Conjunction.
[jaunty folk music playing]
Tradition awaits! If you don't join,
Mom will find some way to blame me.
- You don't want my death upon your hands.
- Oh. Um, my nephew.
Would you excuse me?
[woman laughs]
[folk music continues]
[nephew and Essie laugh]
[folk music fades]
[waves lap]
[somber music playing]
[man laughs] Look at this haul.
We'll be rolling in coin in no time.
And by coin, you mean food.
Every kid in my village is starving.
People in your parts should stop
breeding like bunnies. [laughs]
Now, less lip flapping,
more shell cracking.
[somber music playing]
Ah! I found one!
Gimme that.
What we do with the rest?
Toss that worthless shit back in--
[ominous music playing]
[music fades]
Who's there?
Show yourself!
[rumbling]
[creaking]
[creaking continues]
[sailor yells]
I thought you wanted
to be with your family.
I love 'em dearly,
but we all need a breather sometimes.
- Clearly, you can relate.
- Clearly.
Anyway, I wanted to spend time
with the mysterious man
who inspired so many of Jaskier's ballads.
More like bollocks.
I'm sure you know
Jaskier is prone to dramatics.
Come, now. Are you being modest?
What of the song where you wrestled
a werewolf, barefisted in Moulderwood
under the glowing full moon?
I cured that werewolf
with enchanted wolfsbane.
And the one where
you defeated a horde of vampires
with three stakes
in each hand and one in the mouth?
One vampire. One stake.
And the one where you found a djinn,
saved the life of a beautiful witch
and became bound to her through magic?
I'm simply saying,
most would lean into the embellishments.
Delight in the grand persona.
Like Jaskier, or should I say, Julian?
I understand why he left.
Outside the palace,
men in Bremervoord are expected
to take up a trade on the seas.
But Julian was always creative.
Different.
And treated horribly for it.
By everyone except you.
It takes bravery to stand against a crowd.
You never thought
to set your sights beyond Bremervoord?
Things were different for me.
I was never unhappy.
Though I sometimes wonder
what life would be like if I left.
But I love the sea,
my family, and friends.
What more could this Continent offer me?
So, why do they call you Little Eye
when you have two huge eyes?
[firework whistles]
[fireworks explode]
N-Not huge. I mean...
Normal-sized. Perfectly ordinary
and unremarkable human eyes.
Flirting is not your strong suit,
is it, Witcher?
[applause, cheering]
My set was unparalleled.
Even these uncultured yokels
gave me a standing ovation.
Ha. I pity the local hack
who has to follow me.
Wish me luck.
Y-You... You're the local bard
everyone's been raving about?
[laughs]
Well, that's wonderful, Essi!
Oh, I'm... I am sure
that you will do splendidly. [chuckles]
Good luck. All right! [chuckles]
People used to mistake
her singing for mating cats,
so whatever happens, just smile and clap.
♪ The first draft of my story
Was not the best edition ♪
♪ I added a bit of glory and... ♪
My musical ear's not very good, but--
She is. She is very good.
Wait, she's singing my song.
She's making it her own!
Oh, this will not do.
♪ The doubters and the haters
Tried to make my tale about them ♪
♪ I invested in erasers
And took care of the problem ♪
[laughter]
- ♪ A sword ♪
- ♪ A bow ♪
- ♪ A mighty axe ♪
- ♪ Impossible to defend ♪
- ♪ No one can survive my attacks ♪
- ♪ For alone ♪
- ♪ I write the end ♪
- ♪ Yes, alone I write ♪
- ♪ The end ♪
[cheering and applause]
Pearl prices being what they are,
we should send
every last one of those meddling merpeople
to their briny graves.
My hands are tied as long as the prince
is chasing that shimmery tail.
The mermaid's no doubt bewitched him.
They're known to be magical tricksters.
[Geralt] No more deceitful than humans.
I don't recall
asking for your opinion, Witcher.
That's right. I know who you are.
White Wolf.
If you know my name,
it's because you know his songs.
- [fanfare playing]
- [man] Hey? What's going on?
- [fanfare continues]
- [crowd murmuring]
[woman] She's beautiful!
It's the princess!
Holy hirikkas. Who is she?
Princess Nispen of Maribor.
A late invitation,
but a wise one by the king.
A good reminder there are
plenty of human princesses to marry.
She even brought delicacies
from home, and fruit!
My kind of princess.
[Zelest] Let's hope Agloval's too.
[talisman vibrates]
[groaning]
[crowd gasping]
[man groans]
[Nispen gasps]
What happened?
- Fetch a barber!
- [Zelest] Clear a path.
Who did this?
I was speared by those fish fucks.
The vodnik.
They got me.
For good.
[wheezes]
If it were Kovir, Cintra,
a human navy attacking us,
we'd be at war by now.
Are we a kingdom, or are we cowards?
[ominous music playing]
Sorry, son, but the time has come.
We've run out of options.
[Zelest] Sire, if I may.
Not all options.
We have a monster problem off our shore,
and a monster hunter in our midst.
Witcher, your services are required.
Find the vodnik who did this and kill it.
[scoffs] Good luck. Ask anyone in town.
He already failed
at killing the Allamorax.
Because it was not the beast
you were looking for.
But clearly the vodnik are.
They work for the merpeople.
If the Witcher confirms
that they're the ones attacking divers,
you'll have no choice but to declare war.
- [man 1] Find them all!
- [man 2] Kill them!
[man 1] Kill the slimy bastards!
[crowd shouting]
A deal's a deal.
This isn't what we agreed to.
Well, neither was second billing.
We all must make sacrifices.
- [Geralt] I'm not helping justify a war.
- But maybe you can help prevent one.
What say you, Witcher?
Fuck.
Why didn't you tell me
you're from Bremervoord?
You know I'm not actually from Rivia.
Well, it's not just that. It...
I had to leave
this place completely behind
so I could become who I wanted to be.
In case you didn't notice, this town
is filled with small-minded fools.
Your friend Essi
doesn't fit that description.
Yeah.
Yeah, she's like a sister to me.
Aha! I knew it! I knew it. I could sense
there was something between you two.
If by "something" you mean air and space.
[Jaskier] She is a good woman.
Unlike that raven-haired,
sunken-eyed, serpent-tongued she-demon.
You need someone like Essi.
I need coin, peace, and quiet.
Look, you may appear to be as tough
as this dreadfully overcooked meat
you've prepared, but I know the truth.
That underneath the armor and the weapons
and the hair,
the ridiculous, ridiculous hair,
you are nothing but a softie.
A softie, soft,
softie, soft, soft, softie, soft--
- Ow.
- How's that for soft?
I suggest you get a good night's sleep.
We have a long journey ahead of us.
And I suggest you open your heart.
Connecting with another human
isn't as awful as you make it seem.
[pensive music playing]
[water splashes]
[pensive music continues]
- Uh, I... I'm sorry.
- Don't be sorry.
Do something about it.
- I couldn't tell if you felt the same way.
- [Geralt] I do.
It's just... It's all a little too simple.
- The best things in life often are.
- [Geralt] That hasn't been my experience.
[Essi] It's as if you delight in tragedy.
In selecting the most difficult path.
But you could choose serenity.
You could choose me.
[Essi and Yennefer] You really should be
more inventive with your fantasies.
It's downright cliché.
Even in your dreams,
you can't keep up with me. [chuckles]
[Geralt] It doesn't have to be this way.
We could start again. Fresh.
You sound like
your singsongy lady friend,
and that is not a compliment.
Why do you push me away
when I try to come closer?
[scoffs] Please, Geralt. Wake up.
- Yen, I--
- Wake up!
[tense music playing]
[metal scrapes]
[grunting]
[tense music continues]
- [tense music builds]
- [spits]
[Geralt groans]
[grunts]
[tense music continues]
[Geralt yells]
[gasps]
[Geralt strains]
[sighs]
[yawns]
What did I miss?
I know you don't like
killing creatures for no reason,
but that one almost killed you,
and you still let it go.
I let it go because it's more help to me
alive than dead.
It's a vodnik.
Like the one that killed the pearl diver.
And vodnik blood's iridescent.
If I can track it to the den,
we'll find the others.
I'm so sorry. The others?
That vodnik can fight, but it couldn't
take out a whole boatload alone.
They travel in schools, but how
did a sea creature know where to find us?
Now that you're with a famous bard,
everyone knows our whereabouts! [chuckles]
Fans can be really obsessive.
Or the Allamorax and merpeople I spared
put the word out.
[Jaskier] Nah, it's me.
It's definitely me.
[twig cracks]
[Jaskier gasps]
[Geralt] Essi?
Why are you following us?
You heard the king.
We're on the verge of war!
I need to know what's happening
in my town. I want to help.
I appreciate your willingness.
What I need right now
is a boat to follow that vodnik.
No, you don't.
The tide shifts over ten cubits,
and we're almost at low ebb.
Look.
[mysterious music playing]
At low tide,
you can walk to Dragons Fangs.
I remember being your age.
Being fascinated with all types.
Mistaking infatuation with romance.
Until... I found your mother.
She was radiant.
Gracious.
She had a knack
for seeing only the best in people.
Gods know that must be
why she said yes to me.
I miss her too.
And I shall honor her memory
by marrying for love, as you did.
I want to marry Sh'eenaz.
I know how you claim
to feel about the mergirl, son,
but for those at our station,
marriage isn't only about love.
It's about duty.
Your life doesn't just belong to you.
It belongs to your kingdom.
I'm thinking about the kingdom.
Our union has the potential
to bring peace to land and sea.
How so, Agloval? Where would you live?
What offspring could you produce?
It's impossible.
[Zelest clears throat]
- Apologies for the interruption.
- No bother. I was just leaving.
For what it's worth, I've tried
to tell him to end it with that fish girl.
I appreciate that. He values your advice.
Whatever you need.
I'm here to serve the kingdom.
And you, Father.
Thank you, Zelest.
Some days, I wish
you were my full-blooded son.
I'd love to see
the type of leader you'd be.
[waves crashing]
- [kissing]
- [Sh'eenaz sighs softly]
[Agloval chuckles softly]
[gentle music playing]
[Agloval sighs]
Everything looks so peaceful from afar.
Who'd ever know
the turmoil that brews below?
[in Merspeak] I wish my parents,
all of my people,
could see that you are just like us.
Even if your language
is horrendously ear-piercing.
[in English] Hmm.
Across the heavens, land, and sea,
I've never seen
a creature more beautiful than you.
This is love.
[in Merspeak] This is love.
Finally together.
Wishing I could spend the rest of my days
right here by your side.
[gentle music continues]
[intriguing music playing]
Where is the Witcher taking those humans?
[in English] My love, what is it?
[in Merspeak] I have to warn the others.
[water splashes]
[gentle music playing]
[whimpers softly]
[in English] Dragons Fangs.
They gave me nightmares when I was young.
They're just a couple of rocks, Julian.
Nothing to be scared of.
Except for that vodnik den.
[foreboding music playing]
[vodnik gasps]
What'd you... [whimpers]
[tense music playing]
[panting]
[Geralt grunts]
Who sent you after me?
[strains] If I told you, she'd kill me.
And if you don't, I will.
Is she the one
who ordered you to kill the pearl divers?
I've never killed any divers,
but I'm glad someone did.
You think you're protecting your betters.
You're not.
Because whoever she is, she's willing
to let you die for her fights.
People think I've gone soft
on killing monsters.
I'll prove them wrong
unless you give me a name.
It was--
[vodnik groans]
[Geralt growls]
What did you do?
Your job, Witcher!
You're as bad at saying thank you
as you are at killing monsters.
I see you're still getting others
to fight your battles, Julian.
I'm trying to stop a war.
Why is it you seem to be pushing for one?
Nonsense! I simply
understand what it means to lead.
- [tense music playing]
- [vodnik growls]
- [soldier groans]
- [running footsteps approach]
[tense music continues]
[groans]
[Zelest grunts]
[tense music continues]
[soldier groans]
[merman groans]
[tense music continues]
[vodnik groans]
[soldier groans]
- [Essi] Julian!
- [Jaskier groans]
[Jaskier groans]
[vodnik snarls]
[Essi groans]
Essi!
[tense music playing]
[Essie strains]
[vodnik snarls]
[Essi strains]
[Essi yells]
[vodnik groans]
[suspenseful whooshing]
[somber music playing]
[coughs]
[somber music continues]
- [Geralt grunts]
- [Essi gasps]
- [swords clash]
- [fighters clamor]
Leave, or I'll kill
the only real monster I see.
[somber music continues]
[clamoring continues]
[ship creaks]
[somber music continues]
[grunts] My father will hear about this!
[waves lap]
The water's rising too fast!
Essi, if you know the ocean,
now's the time to prove it.
Follow me.
Jump!
This seems like an awful--
- [Jaskier yells]
- [water splashes]
[coughs]
- [labored breathing]
- [Dahut] What has happened?
[mermaid] It was
the prince's bastard brother!
He must be acting on his own.
Agloval would never allow such a thing.
Or he's simply slick enough
to hide his plans from you.
That human has distracted you
from your duty to protect the seas.
I warned you when I saw the Witcher.
Presently, your hysterics
are the only thing distracting me.
I am a healer, not a fighter.
So let me help our cousin.
In the eyes of our kind,
war has already begun.
Hold on, Deroua. Deep breaths.
[somber music playing]
[labored breathing]
[gasps]
[mermaid sobbing]
[music fades]
Thanks for your help today, Essi.
[Jaskier] And what of my help?
Got any more ale?
Everyone keeps blaming
the prince and the mermaid girl.
Those are the two we need to speak to.
Get the truth straight from the source.
They meet at dawn on Founder's Rock
each day. I see 'em from my window.
We can go in the morning.
I worry the humans
aren't looking for truth.
They're simply looking for a reason
to exterminate the sea creatures.
We survive off sea life. Why kill 'em off?
Humans have a knack
for seeking short-term profits
and retelling the story
so it wasn't their fault.
I've seen it happen with sylvan horns,
basilisk scales, and now pearls.
It's no longer about sustenance.
It's about greed.
The vodnik said it was hired by a "she."
Is this the queen's doing?
You seem certain about the mermaid queen,
but what's the motive?
A parent would do anything
to protect her child.
She believes Prince Agloval
to be a threat.
The way we've treated mermaids
in the past, can't say I blame her.
What passed for love in my childhood
was a cold patch of hay on a dirt floor
and enough meager rations
to survive another day.
Your kind has never inspired
that much trust.
[Essi] Sounds like
you're trapped in your past.
Perhaps when solving life's big mysteries,
start by looking right in front of you.
[Jaskier] Hmm.
[sighs]
Jaskier, tell me more of the time
you sang for the Countess de Stael.
I've already told you
that story three times.
I don't mean to be a pest. Your tales
give me a vicarious thrill, but I'll stop.
Thank gods. Agloval and the princess
better turn up soon.
I cannot deny
a dear friend's humble request.
It was a warm summer night in Maribor
when I was reunited with my countess.
Alas, there'd been
a blight for two-times-ten years!
- Twenty years.
- Twenty years!
So instead of making love
under the stars in her peach orchard
as the fragrant floral scent
wafted from the trees,
it was the smell of acrid fungi
underneath shriveled branches
that filled our nostrils and our--
[Geralt] We don't wanna know
what it filled.
Fair enough, but alas, nothing could stop
our sweet, sweet passion.
Not even a fiefdom's economic free fall
as the fruit capital of the Continent.
- And they've never recovered since.
- Is that true, Jaskier?
Uh, you of all people
doubt my love for the Countess de Stael?
- [Essie] There they are.
- [gentle music playing]
[in Merspeak] Did your kind
send a vodnik to kill me last night?
[in English] I would have started
with a "good morning" first. Oof.
[in Merspeak] Please excuse him.
He may have the manners of a boar,
but he has the heart of a lion.
Or sea lion, in your case.
You speak beautifully. I'm impressed.
Your lover talks like a cawing crow.
You may want to give him a lesson.
Lover? I barely know her.
[in English] Lady bard... Uh, Essi.
Come translate for me.
Tell Sh'eenaz that I would
like us to be married,
though it may take some time
to convince my father. [chuckles]
[in Merspeak] He wants to marry you.
Now he must convince his father.
I have a tail, and you have legs.
How can we turn this fantasy into reality?
[in English] She asks
how to turn this fantasy into reality.
- She has a tail, and you have legs.
- That is nothing in the face of love.
But love means being together.
And she cannot live
among the hideous dirt-walkers.
[Jaskier chuckles]
[Essi] Her words. Not mine.
Perhaps I can build her a tank.
She's a princess, not a pet. To suggest
such a thing is beyond offensive.
I'm trying to think of solutions.
And all your solutions require
loss on her part and nothing from you.
Not even a little sacrifice.
Her words,
or yours?
We can get back
to this lover's spat later.
Right now, I need to stop a war.
Ask her about the vodnik.
[in Merspeak] The Witcher asked you again
about yesterday's attack.
You can tell your Witcher
I heard him the first time.
I know nothing of a vodnik attack,
except by the king's men.
- [in English] You say you were attacked.
- Shortly after your father hired me.
As if someone didn't want me
to discover who killed those pearl divers.
We saw you
near Dragons Fangs that morning.
I could tell Sh'eenaz was angry.
You swam off
without so much as a goodbye kiss. Why?
[in Merspeak] Were you angry
when you left him yesterday?
Of course I was angry. I went to save
my people from your brother's blade!
[in English] I am sure Zelest and his men
fought admirably to help find
the culprits who killed the pearl diver.
[in Merspeak] Perhaps my parents
were right about you humans,
if you would defend
the murderer who killed my cousin!
[in English] Perhaps Zelest was right
about you bewitching me.
I cannot believe I fell for this! For you!
[in Merspeak] I liked you better
when we only fucked instead of talked.
[somber music playing]
[in English] So now what?
[Essi] Now it all falls apart.
[somber music continues]
[woman cries]
[child cries]
[Zelest] Lachlan Daven.
By decree of the Honorable King Usveldt,
you are hereby conscripted
to the armed forces of Bremervoord.
What is the meaning of this? He's a child!
He's 15. Under the law,
he's eligible to fight.
Fuck your law!
When... If war is declared,
your nephew will either be on a ship
or a gibbet.
[tense music playing]
[vodnik exclaim]
[tense music continues]
[grunting]
[clamoring]
[somber music playing]
[music fades]
Humans. I can't stand the sight of them.
There, there, poppet.
A relationship is bound
to hit choppy waters occasionally.
My mother is preparing for war.
My feelings towards Agloval
may have changed,
but I don't want
any more lives to be lost.
Sea creature or human.
Yes, I know.
I also know what it's like
to love a man you cannot be with.
I've been working on something
since the last council meeting.
You seemed so distraught over Agloval.
[eerie tinkling]
A potion.
This will allow you
to take your lover's form.
You mean I'd... become human?
If you did something
to prove your loyalty,
he'd see reason.
That's not a reason I want!
I'd have to give up everything.
[ominous music playing]
♪ A little bit of sacrifice ♪
♪ A whole new world of paradise ♪
♪ Such a little price
So just play nice ♪
♪ And go along ♪
♪ A little bit of give and take ♪
♪ You'll have to give it all away ♪
♪ A worthy fee to pay ♪
♪ No other way
I can't be wrong... ♪
- Does it hurt?
- Tremendously.
- Will it leave scars?
- [Melusina] Indubitably.
♪ But it's a moment of pain
For a prince to say ♪
♪ He loves you... ♪
But all my friends...
- [Melusina] A pittance!
- [Sh'eenaz] And my mother?
[Melusina] Good riddance.
♪ You'll be a blushing bride... ♪
If I were with the humans, I could
convince them to stop the warmongering.
♪ You'll need him by your side ♪
But I don't know
if I can take this, Auntie.
You keep that.
You never know what will happen, poppet.
A girl always needs options.
[ominous music continues]
[music fades]
[birds squawk]
I don't even know why I'm out here
with you two. You don't need me.
That's not true.
Geralt is the brawn. You're the brains.
Obviously, I'm the beauty.
But in this situation,
that's not entirely useful.
You're here for moral support.
Something severely lacking at the moment.
[exhales] Thank you
for all your help so far.
I didn't know you were fluent in Merspeak.
How could you?
After all, you barely know me.
[Jaskier sighs]
- Essi, th-that's not--
- I'm here for my nephew.
He's been sent to war
because of the attacks on pearl divers.
If you're right and it's not the mermaids,
if the humans are at fault,
maybe he can be saved.
[Jaskier yelps]
[Jaskier shudders]
So this solves it. The vodnik did it.
Wonderful. Can we leave now?
I'm not so sure. All the vodnik spears
are lodged at the same angle. From below.
Uh, so?
Vodnik have legs, and yet
none of them climbed aboard the ship?
Whoever killed the divers
attacked only from the water.
[somber music playing]
[Geralt strains]
That necklace is only worn
by the mermaid royal family.
Your theory is right.
Queen Dahut is behind this.
I told you.
A parent will do anything for their child.
The king will never back down now.
We must go to the castle at once.
[somber music continues]
[music fades]
[grunting]
[guard groans]
Didn't take you long
to move on from Sh'eenaz.
- It seems my love for her was misguided.
- What do you have for us, Witcher?
Empty hands and a mouthful of excuses,
no doubt.
Arrest him.
- [Jaskier chuckles nervously]
- I know who killed your pearl divers.
- I want to hear this.
- We already know it was the vodnik.
Doing the mermaids' dirty work.
It wasn't the vodnik, but the creature
wanted you to think it was.
[scoffs] Creature?
It took the shape of a kraken
so it could do the work of ten vodnik.
[man groans]
[scoffs] Kraken are terrifying,
I'll give you that,
but everyone and their brother
knows they're pea-brained.
- A kraken couldn't pull off an attack--
- I didn't say a kraken.
I said the shape of a kraken.
It was a mermaid.
I knew it.
Aye, and a royal one to boot.
[tentacles squelch]
[Geralt] I found this necklace
on the rudder of the pearl diver boat.
Only the royal mermaids
are allowed to wear the peridot.
I told you
that scaly girl wasn't to be trusted.
Except it wasn't Sh'eenaz.
I doubt she knew anything about this.
You said mermaids
are deceivers and tricksters.
Only one of the royals
can make potions and shape-shift.
The sea witch.
Melusina? I know she can do magic,
but how do you know she's a shape-shifter?
Because I've seen her do it before.
We all have.
[tense music playing]
I didn't kill the monster that attacked
your boats, because she's here right now.
Aren't you, sea witch?
[snarls]
Run, Melusina!
[Melusina grunts]
[Melusina yells]
[Jaskier grunts]
[eerie music playing]
[groans] Useless pegs!
Wow, Geralt. You really know
how to spot those raven-haired witches.
- How'd you know she wasn't real?
- Because of something you said.
Maribor had a blight
on their orchards for 20 years.
Uh, two-times-ten years.
So she's not from Maribor.
She magicked that fruit into existence!
Ha! I solved the case!
[Agloval] You were in league
with that sea witch all along!
- Son.
- All these attacks.
All the pearl divers
and fishermen who died.
That was you and Melusina!
One attack should have caused
the dominoes to fall,
but you were so stubborn,
I had to keep going.
If you hadn't insisted
on hiring this sewer cleaner,
this problem would be gone by now.
You killed our people!
And I would do it again
to get you to come to your senses.
Our family has sat on that throne
for 11 generations,
and there will be 11 more generations
once you find the right princess.
Mother would be disgusted with you.
Don't you dare speak of your mother to me.
I'm doing this for her, you fucking child!
Her legacy will die
because of your stubborn arrogance.
Those divers. What about their legacies?
None of them would have had to die
if you weren't so selfish.
You made me do this.
Their blood is on your hands, not mine.
If this is how I'd have to rule,
I want no part of it.
We'll just, uh, follow the prince out.
Don't worry about us.
We attack now!
Round up the conscripts. Zelest!
Dump their bodies out past Dragons Fangs.
You love those sea monsters so much,
you can be with them forever.
[Zelest] No.
I pushed for war
because I thought we'd been attacked.
Bought into the old prejudices.
- But it was you.
- Watch yourself, son.
Don't call me that!
[laughs]
A lifetime of not being enough,
and now you want to claim me.
No! I'm not going to add to the bloodshed
to prop up a deceitful king!
I have to protect Agloval,
as much as he's disappointed me,
but you've never been anything
but a mistake I wanted to erase.
And now, I'll do just that.
Dump his body too.
[Zelest grunts]
- [Zelest groans]
- [Jaskier whimpers]
[suspenseful music playing]
[vodnik growls]
[suspenseful music continues]
[music fades]
Your highness, no one
will give me a straight answer.
What's going on at the docks?
The royal fleet
is sailing to Dragons Fangs.
I fear we're going to war.
Where are Geralt and Jaskier?
They confronted my father. He's...
You won't see them again, Essi. I'm sorry.
And you're going to let that happen?
Then you're no better than he is!
Watch your tongue, bard!
Remember to whom you are speaking.
Oh, I know. I'm talking
to a man who lucked into a throne.
Jaskier was right to leave this shithole
of a kingdom. I defended this place.
Thought anything that went wrong
could be fixed,
but that's not up to me or my family.
We're just the poor people
outside the palace walls.
It's up to yours.
Too bad none of you
give a sod about the rest of us.
- That's not true.
- Then prove it!
You could stop this if you had a fraction
of the courage that Witcher does!
He was trying to stop this war.
Keep our people alive.
It takes bravery to stand against a crowd.
That Witcher's as honorable
as anyone in this kingdom.
If that was Sh'eenaz out there,
what would you do?
[somber music playing]
[Melusina groans]
[Melusina breathes heavily]
[somber music continues]
- Are you all right, Auntie?
- I'll be fine soon enough.
Boats are above. They're coming for us!
What's happening?
Your parents' reign is over.
[somber music continues]
[music fades]
This'll do.
I should kill you first, Witcher,
but I sense
you don't fear pain or even death.
And yet, for all the talk
of Witchers lacking emotions,
I know how to hurt you.
Make him watch his friends die.
And make it quick.
I have a war to win.
Two useless subjects no one will miss.
Geralt.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry
I made you make that deal.
I fucking knew I never should have
come back here to Bremervoord.
You were right to leave, Jaskier.
Let me go first.
[somber music playing]
[Zelest grunts]
[soldier groans]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Jaskier groans]
[soldier yells]
[soldiers grunting]
[soldier groans]
[grunts]
[snarls]
[tense music playing]
What's a bard to do?
Follow my lead, and stay alive.
[Jaskier] Oh, we are so fucked.
Maybe not.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Geralt] Sh'eenaz.
[suspenseful music continues]
[soldiers yelp]
[soldiers yell]
[in Merspeak] The king's in league
with your aunt. The sea witch.
But my prince. Where is he?
[Geralt] He didn't come.
Not even to stop a war?
Not even a little sacrifice...
He didn't know. And he does love you.
Love shows up.
[in English] Look out!
[groans]
[vodnik roars]
Attack!
[soldiers clamoring]
[suspenseful music playing]
[merman yells]
Sir!
[vodnik growls]
[vodnik squeals]
[suspenseful music continues]
[vodnik groans]
- [Jaskier groans]
- [Zelest grunts]
[vodnik groans]
[suspenseful music continues]
- [Geralt grunts]
- [vodniks groan]
[thunder rumbling]
[gasps]
[Usveldt gasps]
I still like our odds.
[sinister music playing]
[soldiers yell]
[sinister music continues]
Scratch that.
[Jaskier] No! [yells]
[gasps]
- [Jaskier gasps]
- [Geralt grunts]
[Jaskier gasps]
[sinister music continues]
[kraken roars]
[Melusina] You handle the Witcher.
Leave my niece to me.
- [vodnik growls]
- [Geralt grunts]
[tense music playing]
[Geralt grunts]
[tense music continues]
[growls]
[Geralt grunts]
[vodniks snarl]
- [vodnik groans]
- [Jaskier yelps]
[Jaskier yells]
[Jaskier grunts]
- [vodnik snarls]
- [Jaskier grunts]
[tense music continues]
[merpeople groan]
[vodnik snarls]
[grunts weakly]
[Geralt grunts]
- [Jaskier groans]
- [vodnik groans]
- [Jaskier whimpers]
- [mermaids scream]
[tense music continues]
[vodnik groans]
[yells]
[tense music continues]
[Melusina strains]
[Melusina exhales]
Why are you doing this?
I stood up for you!
Basim was mine.
He and I had a real love.
But my sister
gave him the only thing I couldn't.
A fry. You.
I should have been on the throne
with my Basim, but Dahut took it.
Took him!
The pain I went through,
losing the one I loved the most.
It's her turn now.
They deserve to lose everything,
and they will.
Should have chosen those grotesque legs
when you had the chance.
Then again,
your human didn't even
care enough to come.
[Sh'eenaz yells]
- [Geralt grunts]
- [vodnik growls]
[Agloval] Sh'eenaz!
[vodniks snarl]
Agloval.
[Agloval growls, grunting]
[somber music playing]
- [Agloval grunts]
- [vodniks snarl]
[Agloval yells]
[Agloval panting]
[Agloval breathes heavily]
[vodnik snarls]
[breathing heavily]
[vodnik groans]
[somber music playing]
[Agloval gasps]
[Agloval groans]
[somber music continues]
[kraken roars]
[whimpers]
[Geralt grunts]
[somber music continues]
[suspenseful music playing]
- [Sh'eenaz groans]
- [kraken roars]
[Jaskier grunts]
I've got this. Go!
[grunts]
[suspenseful music continues]
Hmm.
[Geralt growls softly]
[exhales]
[Geralt grunts]
[tense music playing]
[grunts] Whoa!
[Geralt grunts]
[strains]
[tense music continues]
[Geralt strains]
[Sh'eenaz strains]
- [Sh'eenaz groans]
- Your aunt and I agree on many things.
Biggest, all our problems
started with you.
[Geralt groans]
Essi!
[Essi groans]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Usveldt grunts]
[Sh'eenaz screams]
- [Usveldt grunts]
- [Sh'eenaz groans]
See how you swim now.
[suspenseful music continues]
[Agloval crying]
- [sword slices]
- [Essi strains]
[tense music playing]
[Geralt grunts]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Geralt groans]
[breathes heavily]
[suspenseful music continues]
[Geralt grunting]
[Geralt groans]
[suspenseful music builds]
[Essie yells] Geralt!
- [music stops]
- [bottle tinkles]
[tense music playing]
[kraken roars]
- [Jaskier sighs]
- [Usveldt gasps]
Geralt.
[somber music playing]
- [kraken shrieks]
- [Dahut groans]
[bottle tinkles]
[kraken shrieks]
[dramatic music playing]
[kraken roars]
[dramatic music continues]
[Geralt yells]
[kraken roars]
[Geralt grunts]
[dramatic music continues]
[kraken shrieks]
[kraken roars]
[kraken groans]
[yells]
[gasps]
[somber music playing]
[Agloval] Sh'eenaz! Sh'eenaz!
Sh'eenaz!
[somber music continues]
[water burbles]
[Essi gasps]
[Jaskier whimpers]
[Geralt exhales softly]
[Jaskier exhales]
- I thought you'd become a snack.
- Wouldn't be the first time.
You should have smelled
him after the selkiemaw.
- At least this time he got a bath.
- [Agloval] Where's Sh'eenaz?
[somber music continues]
No one's going to blame you
if you leave him here.
He's still my blood.
[Usveldt groans]
[Usveldt exhales]
- [Usveldt gasps]
- What did you do to her?
[emotional music swells]
- Thank you, Mother.
- You're not the only healer in the family.
[sighs]
[music fades]
These creatures are not our enemy!
[gentle music playing]
And we are not yours.
We have been tricked!
Misled by those we trusted.
But the fighting stops now!
We will find a way to live in peace again.
I promise you.
Now, let's go home!
[Usveldt sighs] I apologize, son.
For everything.
The sea witch proved useful in one way.
There's a potion that allows
its user to take their lover's true form.
I'm going to marry Sh'eenaz,
and I'd like you to be there.
There's a way for her to become human?
Hmm. Perhaps there's a way
to open my heart.
Of course, we'll put
all the unpleasantness behind us.
She'll take on a new identity,
and none in Bremervoord will be the wiser.
Don't fret. I'll take care of it, son.
I'm sure you will,
Father.
Checkmate.
[mystical music playing]
[music fades]
[Jaskier] This is the smallest
royal wedding I've ever attended.
Princes aren't typically
known for their restraint.
The fewer witnesses
to this spectacle, the better.
I suppose in some ways,
you did your job, Witcher.
Once the fish is human,
my line will continue.
Regardless of your misguided
sense of morality.
[jaunty music playing]
[exhales]
[jaunty music continues]
[gentle music playing]
[gasps]
[gentle music continues]
From the moment we locked eyes,
my heart belonged to you, Sh'eenaz.
You unlocked a version of myself
I didn't know existed.
[gentle music continues]
[suspenseful music playing]
What are you doing? Stop!
It's too later, Father!
You wanted me to hide my beloved,
lie to my kingdom and myself.
All to feed your own ego.
It has become clear to me.
There is nothing left for me here.
[Agloval groans]
[Agloval yelling in pain]
[gentle music playing]
[music fades]
This is your fault, Witcher!
My kingdom. My legacy.
It will die with me.
If you saw beyond your pride,
lives could have been saved.
You had two sons. Now you have none.
That is the legacy you deserve.
[somber music playing]
[Jaskier] Agloval's prepared to give up
his entire life and everything he knows.
- I hope he's made the right decision.
- You did the same thing, Julian.
I'm sure the prince will be fine.
[uplifting music playing]
[music fades]
[Essi] So Agloval got his princess
in the end.
Hopefully, this marriage brings peace,
as they hoped.
I couldn't have figured out
the truth without you.
It's not something I'm used to saying.
You are stubborn and set in your ways,
but there's nothing wrong
with being part of a team.
Relying on another person.
- Sharing a life.
- I told you.
I've found it wise not to trust others.
Who said love should be wise?
[gentle music playing]
[Essi moaning softly]
[music fades]
[birds chirping]
[Essi] I know.
You don't have to say anything.
Essi, I'm sorry.
[Essi] You don't have to be.
I've had enough adventure
these past few days to last a lifetime,
but someone else's lifetime.
I always wondered what life
would be like if I left Bremervoord.
But the reasons I find you fascinating
are the reasons we cannot be together.
[gentle music playing]
I could never tame your Witcher heart.
Nor do I want to.
I want a family.
Stability. Peace.
That dream seems more farfetched
than a man marrying a mermaid.
You have a larger destiny.
You care about others,
no matter how hard you try and hide it.
I track monsters and collect coin.
That's what Witchers were bred for.
Humans believe in destiny.
But when you've lived as long as I,
you know there's
no rhyme or reason to this song.
You simply dance along to get by.
I'm not like you, Essi.
You're so much more like me
than you imagine.
I wish you could see that.
Maybe some day you will.
But for now,
looks like Jaskier will have to do.
[gentle music playing]
[Jaskier] ♪ The prince
Did sit aside the sea ♪
♪ Blushing with his siren ♪
♪ At length did they try to agree
Who'd forfeit their environ ♪
♪ A trade for surf
A swap for turf ♪
♪ Who'd cave first and when ♪
♪ For if your goal be paradise
A life with your true love ♪
♪ Ponder all your wants in life ♪
♪ And make a little sacrifice ♪
[Jaskier] Aw, would you look at those two?
Can't tell if they're frolicking
or fighting.
Just because you and your accursed lover
only have two modes
doesn't mean everyone else does.
I have great hopes for them.
It's young love, but it's still love.
I don't doubt that,
but there are still pearls
and greed and bruised egos.
Kings and queens may claim
they're looking out for their heirs,
but I've yet to meet a royal
who doesn't care more about their vanity
than their child.
I wish I weren't right.
[sighs] No wonder
you're such a hopeless unromantic.
Not true.
It's just that normal humans
have short lives,
and even shorter memories.
Essi's wonderful,
but she doesn't understand me like someone
who's lived as long as I have.
- Someone like--
- Do not say Yennefer.
Wherever we go next, can we just make sure
we don't run into that she-demon?
Ooh.
- I've got it!
- [Geralt] Where to?
The farthest corner of the Continent.
No culture. No comforts.
No reason for that spoiled witch
to be there.
A place called Caingorn.
In the Dragon Mountains.
Where adventure awaits!
And Yennefer, notably, does not.
[hopeful music playing]
[adventurous music playing]
[mysterious music playing]
[music fades]
[gentle music playing]